the Israeli military says its forces are
on the outskirts of Gaza City tanks and
soldiers have crossed into the area
three main locations this marks the
deepest incursion into the territory
since Israel withdrew from Gaza back in
2005 the Israeli military says 18
soldiers have been killed since the
ground offensive began last week let's
go now to Alan fiser he joins us live
from occupied East Jerusalem so what are
they saying about the mountain
casualties
uh we are told that uh there has been a
lot of intense fighting in and around
Gaza that the Israeli forces are finding
that they're coming up against anti-tank
battalions they're also coming up
against uh hang grades being thrown at
them and landmines we know that one of
their senior commanders of the armor
Brigade has been killed he was a man
that was regarded as a hero in Israel
because of how he uh turned his troops
round on the 7th of October and fought
back against Hamas he has now died and
this comes just a couple of days after
the Israelis said that they killed
hamas's main anti-tank organizer and
they said that that this would make
things easier as they move further into
to the Gaza Strip but it's clear the
urban fighting that they expected to to
encounter it's there and and it's
slowing their progress they might not be
moving as fast as many analysts thought
they would in the early days of this
conflict and Alan we know the US
Secretary of State is heading to the
region tomorrow what's expected to be
his mission this
time well he's coming to find out what
Israel's new military objectives are you
remember that Anthony blinkin was here
twice before the ground war actually
started he will again reiterate his
support for Israel and the right to
defend themselves as long as they do it
within international law both
humanitarian law and the rules of war
and he gave evidence on Capitol Hill
earlier this week and we heard him say
that there would be no ceasefire that
that would be a benefit to Hamas there
is some suggestion that he might call
for a humanitarian pause but certainly
given his comments earlier this week
that seems unlikely now during that
hearing he said that perhaps the uh
Palestinian Authority could play an
enhanced role in governing Gaza after
the war well just in the last 30 minutes
or so Hamas has released a statement
saying it is rude and arant of the
United States to try and suggest such a
thing that they reject blatant attempts
to intervene and impose a new regime in
Gaza itself uh now we know that Anthony
blinkin will meet with senior government
figures here his intention then is to go
to a man in Jordan where he'll meet uh
King Abdullah there and then he will go
to turkia and he will speak to uh the
the president and and senior members of
the turkia government there's always the
possibility as we saw back in October
that Anthony blinkin could add steps on
to this visit but clearly his visit here
uh his visit to Israel on Friday is
going to be uh the most significant o of
all his
discussions all right we'll leave it
there thanks so much Alan
fiser well Alan liel is a former
director general of the Israeli Ministry
of Foreign Affairs and a former Israeli
ambassador to South Africa joins us now
from Tel Aviv good to have you with us
so first of all do you think Benjamin
netan
has made the release of Israeli captives
in Gaza a
priority I think it
is up on his agenda but naturally with
the last days of
fighting inside the Gaza strep all the
focus is on the fighting but I think the
Israeli government has it high on its
agenda the families are acting also
independently they have headquarters in
Tel Aviv of the
232 families and they are reaching out
to the world with the stories of the
people in captivity and they trying to
send up a message outside Israel and to
the Israeli government that they think a
a deal should be done fast and even
using the term all for all so I'm in
almost daily touch with families and
trying to help the families as far as we
can
now over the last few days when we've
been speaking and interviewing with
Hamas officials they've said they would
be willing to release the Israeli
captives if Palestinian prisoners could
be released if essential Goods could be
allowed into Gaza and the bombing could
be halted do you think that's something
of a starting point at the very least
that Israel could engage with if this
government of Benjamin Netanyahu
wanted I can first of all I'm not the
Israeli government as you know and I
don't speak on behalf of the Israeli
government your perspective or your
analysis and I can give you my feeling
and the feelings of some of the
families ER I think what we should try
focus on is a the term all for all I
think as you tie to the Daily
fighting it is complicated thing
complicating things but I think this
term all for all should be H thoroughly
examined and and the definitely the
families are in favor of it and the
families as you know have some cloud and
the voice is being heard and I I think
if we can
disassociate H this uh preparations for
an exchange from the daily fighting ER
it will it might make it
easier I'm glad you mentioned the the
families because as we see an
intensification of the air strikes on
Gaza in what balum the Israeli Human
Rights group called in its report a
criminal policy of Revenge what Amnesty
International said on October 19th that
the air strikes were violations of
international law as families see that
this not only claims more and more
Palestinian civilian lives but according
to Hamas also the lives of some of the
civilian Israeli captives is that
pressure going to intensify in turn on
the Israeli Prime
Minister look again I'm taking the angle
of the families and only the angle of
the families and the families want the
people in captivity
released no definitions now they are
very very worried as the fighting is
inside Gaza and they guess their people
are inside Gaza you can imagine how
parents feel about their children and I
just came from a meeting with them they
want the people in captivity out and if
it will be done in an exchange in an
exchange the more we push into it all
kind of definitions and all kind kind of
additional conditions beyond the all for
all it it will not happen even the all
for all itself is complicated because
you don't know who holds who and where
and so on so I think I think and this is
the feeling I get from the families that
if H all Sites including the
International Community will try to
examine an all for all
exchange we might make progress H if we
push this issue of People in captivity
into the overall picture it will be much
more difficult to arrange any release or
exchange all right we'll leave it there
thanks so much for your thoughts on
that thank you